- Dockerfile is a common way to package your
Java applications as a Docker image.
But, as a Java developer, you're building applications
using Maven, Gradle and similar tools.
How does this building of Docker Image
fits into your workflow?
Jib is a tool that supports that.
This section will explain how to build
your Docker Image using Jib.
Jib builds optimized Docker and OCI images
for your Java applications.
It is commonly therefore too, as a compiler for containers.
Jib allows you to deploy changes fast.
It separates your applications into multiple layers,
spreading dependencies from classes.
Now you don't have to wait for Docker to
rebuild your entire Java application.
Just deploy the layers that changed.
A Docker daemon is not needed to build the image.
An image is built directly to the registry.
Optionally, it can also be built to a Docker daemon.
Writing a Dockerfile to create Docker image
for your Java application means
you need to learn two different sets of tools,
one for Java, one for Docker.
You also need to learn best practices around Dockerfile
and need to insure they're consistently
followed across the team.
With Jib, there is no need to write a Dockerfile.
It uses an open-ended base image
that can also be run in debug mode.
You certainly have the option
to choose a different base image.
And, the most important part is
it's available as plugins for Maven and Gradle
and as the Java library.
You can also push to any registry of your choice.
This allows you to seamlessly integrate this
as part of your build process.
No need to write Dockerfile or Docker Build and Push.
Jib is an open-source tool
and you can get all the details about the tool
at GitHub repo.
Now, let's go to IntelliJ,
take a look at our param.xml
and see how we're going to integrate this
as part of our developer workflow.
This is our app.
Let's look at param.xml
and here we are in the Maven param.xml
and we are looking at the Maven profile.
This profile is called just jib.
Here is the groupID, artifactID, and the jib plugin version.
Make sure you use the latest plugin version
because it always has more features into it.
Now, in terms of our image,
we're using openjdk:8-j re as a base image.
As we said, the base image can be overwritten.
Here is the image that we are going to create.
Here are my container options.
Here are my runtime options,
the ports that I am exposing.
Here is an additional option that I'm specifying,
which make sure that the timestamp on my docker image
is always colored.
Now, I'm binding the docker build code to the package phase
of the jib profile.
What that means is,
when I give a Maven package command,
it will also involve the docker build goal
of the jib plugin.
Let's see this in action.
I'm in the app directory here
and I can give the command Maven package
and just the jib profile.
And once I give this command,
Now, if you're giving this command for the very first time,
it will of course download all of the dependencies
and everything for you,
but we have already run the command on this machine,
so the dependencies are predownloaded.
So, the cool thing here is,
you can see it's actually building to the Docker daemon.
But in between, it also tries to
retrieve the registry credentials.
For something important is how do you configure the
registry for your Jib profile?
Here is the link on the jib GitHub repo,
which talks about how do you use Maven settings.
So any of Maven settings, you can set up these values.
The registry name, in this case is registry.hub.docker.com
then of course you give your user name
and your registry password.
And that's how it authenticates with the registry.
Once you have done that,
then you can just give the command,
and in this case, it does build the Docker image
to our local Docker daemon.
So, let's look at what our image looks like now.
So, if I say docker image ls
this arungupta/greeting image was built
just about a minute ago.
Let's look at the history of this image.
The cool thing about Jib is,
as we discussed earlier,
it actually splits your classes, resources, and dependencies
into each individual Docker layer.
This truly leveraging the Docker layering mechanism
in an image and allowing you to integrate more rapidly.
This way Docker does not have to build
an entire application.
If your resources and dependencies have not changed,
which is typically the case,
then only your classes layer is rebuilt
and can be easily pushed to the registry.
This is particularly relevant in a microservices world
because you want that agility for your application and
to be able to deploy your application more rapidly as well.
Now, you can of course build without the Docker daemon
and directly to a registry.
So, what we can do is, we can just say Maven jib:build
and we can still use the same profile and now in this case,
it's going to build the exact same image
but it's going to push it directly to the Docker registry.
We just retrieved the registry credentials
and built and pushed the image as arungupta/greeting.